Arch Linux
==========

Arch Linux is an independently developed, i686/x86-64 general purpose
GNU/Linux distribution versatile enough to suit any role. Development
focuses on simplicity, minimalism, and code elegance. Arch is installed
as a minimal base system, configured by the user upon which their own
ideal environment is assembled by installing only what is required or
desired for their unique purposes. GUI configuration utilities are not
officially provided, and most system configuration is performed from the
shell and a text editor. Based on a rolling-release model, Arch strives
to stay bleeding edge, and typically offers the latest stable versions
of most software.

Contents
--------

-   1 History
-   2 Simplicity
-   3 Modernity
-   4 Software Packaging
-   5 Source Integrity
-   6 Community
-   7 Summary

History
-------

Main article: History of Arch Linux

Arch Linux was founded by Canadian programmer Judd Vinet. Its first
formal release, Arch Linux 0.1, was on March 11, 2002. Although Arch is
completely independent, it draws inspiration from the simplicity of
other distributions including Slackware, CRUX and BSD. In 2007, Judd
Vinet stepped down as Project Lead to pursue other interests and was
replaced by American programmer Aaron Griffin who continues to lead the
project today.

Simplicity
----------

Following The Arch Way philosophy, Arch Linux is lightweight, flexible,
simple and aims to be very UNIX-like. A minimal environment (no GUI)
compiled for i686/x86-64 architectures is provided upon installation:
rather than tearing out unneeded and unwanted packages, the user is
offered the ability to build up from a minimal foundation without any
preemptively-chosen defaults. Arch's design philosophy and
implementation make it easy to extend and mold into whatever kind of
system is required, from a minimalist console machine to the most
grandiose and feature-rich desktop environments available: it is the
user who decides what his Arch system will be.

Modernity
---------

Arch Linux strives to maintain the latest stable release versions of its
software as long as systemic package breakage can be reasonably avoided.
It is based on a rolling-release system, which allows a one-time
installation with continuous upgrades, without ever having to reinstall
and without having to perform the elaborate procedures involved in
system upgrades from one release version to the next. By issuing one
command, an Arch system is kept up-to-date and on the bleeding edge.

Arch incorporates many of the newer features available to GNU/Linux
users, including the systemd init system, modern filesystems (Ext2/3/4,
Reiser, XFS, JFS, BTRFS), LVM2, software RAID, udev support and initcpio
(with mkinitcpio), as well as the latest available kernels.

Software Packaging
------------------

Arch is backed by pacman, an easy-to-use binary package manager that
allows you to upgrade your entire system with one command. Pacman is
coded in C and designed from the ground up to be lightweight, simple and
very fast. Arch also provides the Arch Build System, a ports-like system
to make it easy to build and install packages from source, which can
also be synchronized with one command. You can even rebuild your entire
system with one command.

Supporting i686 and x86-64 architectures, Arch's Official repositories
provide several thousands of high-quality packages to meet your software
demands. In addition, Arch encourages community growth and contribution
by offering the Arch User Repository, which contains many thousands of
user-maintained PKGBUILD scripts for compiling installable packages from
source using the makepkg application. It is also possible for users to
easily build and maintain their own custom repositories.

Source Integrity
----------------

Arch provides non-patched, vanilla software; packages are offered from
pure upstream sources, how the author originally intended it to be
distributed. Patching only occurs in extremely rare cases, to prevent
severe breakage in the instance of version mismatches that may occur
within a rolling release model.

Community
---------

The Arch community is very dependable, lively and welcoming: all Archers
are encouraged to participate and contribute to the distribution, be it
helping with the development of the core software, maintaining packages,
reporting or fixing bugs, improving the ArchWiki documentation, helping
other users solving problems or just exchanging opinions in the forums,
mailing lists, IRC channels, or sharing one's knowledge or even
self-developed applications. Arch Linux is the operating system of
choice for many people around the globe, and there exist several
international communities that offer help and provide documentation in
many different languages.

See Getting involved if you feel you want to become an active member of
the community.

Summary
-------

To summarize: Arch Linux is a versatile and simple distribution designed
to fit the needs of the competent LinuxÂ® user. It is both powerful and
easy to manage, making it an ideal distro for servers and workstations.
Take it in any direction you like: if you share this vision of what a
GNU/Linux distribution should be, then you are welcomed and encouraged
to use it freely, get involved, and contribute to the community. Welcome
to Arch!

Retrieved from
"https://wiki.archlinux.org/index.php?title=Arch_Linux&oldid=304001"

Category:

-   About Arch

-   This page was last modified on 11 March 2014, at 11:23.
-   Content is available under GNU Free Documentation License 1.3 or
    later unless otherwise noted.
-   Privacy policy
-   About ArchWiki
-   Disclaimers
