ArchWiki:News
=============

2014/03/13 - New maintainer

We are happy to announce that Lonaowna has joined forces with the other
members of the ArchWiki:Maintenance Team. Keep up the good work!

Kynikos (talk) 11:01, 13 March 2014 (UTC)

2013/12/09 - Code templates are fixed

Template:bc and Template:hc have been adapted to work like before they
broke. No fixes are required anymore.

Kynikos (talk) 05:15, 9 December 2013 (UTC)

2013/12/08 - MediaWiki 1.22.0 has broken code templates

After upgrading MediaWiki to version 1.22.0, the wiki will not parse
wiki syntax or HTML code inside Template:bc and Template:hc anymore,
rendering them as plain text. This has broken many templates around,
especially those that were using '' and ''' for highlighting parts of
code with italic or bold. Please help fixing them, guidelines for
dealing with the various cases are a work in progress.

Kynikos (talk) 11:39, 8 December 2013 (UTC)

2013/08/05 - New maintainer

A new user, Lahwaacz, has joined the official Maintenance Team: our
community is thankful for the quality and accuracy of his contributions.

Kynikos (talk) 10:28, 5 August 2013 (UTC)

2013/06/15 - New maintainer

The official Maintenance Team sees the addition of a new member: thank
you Flu, your commitment will be of great help for our wiki.

Kynikos (talk) 13:52, 15 June 2013 (UTC)

2013/05/02 - New administrator

The ArchWiki proudly welcomes a new administrator, Fengchao, whose
passionate dedication to our community we have been able to witness over
the past several months: thank you! We are confident this will give our
beloved, ever-growing wiki an important help in maintenance and
moderation for the times to come.

Kynikos (talk) 11:01, 2 May 2013 (UTC)

2012/06/11 - Changes in internationalization

In the next few days Template:i18n will be deprecated and replaced by
interlanguage links (e.g. [[en:Title]]) also for the languages hosted
locally. This operation will be completely performed by a bot, please do
not attempt to "help" it with manual edits, as it is necessary to follow
a particular procedure and you would risk compromising its operations.
The original discussion is in Help talk:I18n#"Dummy" interlanguage links
and deprecation of Template:i18n.

Kynikos (talk) 21:18, 11 June 2012 (UTC)

2012/06/06 - Maintenance team additions

We announce that also Filam, Emiralle and jstjohn have joined the group
of Maintainers: the ArchWiki is thankful for their contributions so far!

Kynikos (talk) 19:46, 6 June 2012 (UTC)

2012/05/20 - Maintenance team

An official team of users has been created with the purpose of helping
supervising the recent changes and fixing the resulting reports. See
ArchWiki:Maintenance Team for more information. Thanks to the initial
Maintainers (in alphabetical order) AlexanderR, Fengchao, Graysky and
Skydiver, who have been chosen for their constant commitment and the
accuracy and quality of their work on the ArchWiki.

Kynikos (talk) 12:47, 20 May 2012 (UTC)

2011/11/01 - Official style guidelines

An official set of style rules is now defined in Help:Style in order to
improve the consistency of content formatting among the various
articles: all ArchWiki contributors are encouraged to read these
guidelines and follow them when editing articles.

Kynikos 12:14, 1 November 2011 (EDT)

2011/09/20 - Administration team additions

Congratulations to the two newest additions to the ArchWiki
administration team: Kynikos and thestinger. Over the past year, both
have demonstrated dedication and exceptional judgment in maintaining and
improving ArchWiki. Their contributions have undoubtedly helped
thousands of (Arch and non-Arch) Linux users and served to render
ArchWiki one of the best sources of GNU/Linux documentation on the web.
Thank you!

pointone 15:37, 20 September 2011 (EDT)

2011/05/29 - A reminder

Please completely avoid the use of contractions and keep the language
formal. Thanks!

Misfit138 19:38, 29 May 2011 (EDT)

2010/03/27 - Thank you, ArchWiki contributors

Thanks to everyone for their invaluable contributions to ArchWiki. Its
content and reputation have been and continue to be second to none.
Please keep the knowledge flowing in.

Misfit138 12:37, 27 March 2010 (EDT)

2010/01/14 - Internationalization guidelines

As you may have noticed, many articles have been moving around this past
month; especially non-English ones. This was due to a recent discussion
on the topic of ArchWiki internationalization. As a result, new
guidelines have been drafted and a major transition has begun. For more
detail, please see the related forum thread and Help:i18n. Briefly, the
following standards have been set:

-   Non-English article titles should be of the form Title in English
    (Language), where "Language" is the localized spelling of the
    language.
-   Localized titles can and should still be created, but only as
    redirects to the English-named article.
-   Template:i18n should be used in place of the old
    Template:i18n links start, Template:i18n entry, and
    Template:i18n links end combination.

We hope this does not alienate or inconvenience international users;
these changes were made primarily to facilitate wiki maintenance and
administration and to simplify inter-language linking. Thanks for all
your translations and other contributions thus far, and please continue
making ArchWiki the envy of distributions world-wide!

pointone 23:43, 14 January 2010 (EST)

2009/09/18 - Remember to keep it formal

Please remember to avoid chatty, conversational style throughout the
wiki. Also, avoid signing your name to a wiki article or comment
therein. Thanks!

Misfit138 11:36, 18 September 2009 (EDT)

2009/01/04 - Article categories!

Please remember to add your contributed articles to the appropriate
category at the top of the page. This will streamline the search process
and make use of the Table of contents system in place. Thanks!

Misfit138 12:33, 4 January 2009 (EST)

2008/09/21 - The finest GNU/Linux distribution wiki

Thanks to your vigilant dedication and contribution, the Arch Linux wiki
remains the finest available. It continues to grow and improve in
quality daily. Nothing negative to report, just keep up the great work.

Misfit138 12:55, 21 September 2008 (EDT)

2008/07/22 - Thank you, Arch users

The recent boost in wiki contribution has been nothing short of
miraculous. Thanks to everyone contributing and improving ArchWiki.
Informative and well written articles, as well as gratuitous
translations, are coming in at an alarming rate. Because of you, word is
spreading about Arch Linux, its high quality wiki and its excellent
community!

Misfit138 20:28, 22 July 2008 (EDT)

2008/05/01 - Don't just give me the 'how' - give me the 'why'

A wiki is a collection of knowledge, most of which ends up being
how-tos, which is to be expected. Let us always remember to add the
'why' to our how-tos. Explanatory information always goes further toward
imparting knowledge than does instruction alone. Adding explanatory wiki
articles is also welcome. Why not add one if you are qualified? Thanks
for the recent increase in contribution to the wiki! Please keep the
knowledge coming.

Misfit138 12:45, 1 May 2008 (EDT)

2008/04/21 - ArchWiki needs YOU!

In our goal to provide the most exhaustive high-quality documentation,
Arch is calling all qualified users to contribute to the wiki. Share
your knowledge and help us improve this invaluable free resource.

Misfit138 18:03, 21 April 2008 (EDT)

Retrieved from
"https://wiki.archlinux.org/index.php?title=ArchWiki:News&oldid=304265"

Category:

-   ArchWiki

-   This page was last modified on 13 March 2014, at 11:01.
-   Content is available under GNU Free Documentation License 1.3 or
    later unless otherwise noted.
-   Privacy policy
-   About ArchWiki
-   Disclaimers
