History of Arch Linux
=====================

  ------------------------ ------------------------ ------------------------
  [Tango-view-fullscreen.p This article or section  [Tango-view-fullscreen.p
  ng]                      needs expansion.         ng]
                           Reason: please use the   
                           first argument of the    
                           template to provide a    
                           brief explanation.       
                           (Discuss)                
  ------------------------ ------------------------ ------------------------

The early years
---------------

Judd Vinet, a Canadian programmer and occasional guitarist, began
developing Arch Linux in early 2001. Its first formal release, Arch
Linux 0.1, was on March 11, 2002. Inspired by the elegant simplicity of
Slackware, Polish Linux Distribution, and CRUX, and yet disappointed
with their lack of package management at the time; Vinet built his own
distribution on similar principles as those distros. But, he also wrote
a package management program called pacman, to automatically handle
package installation, removal, and upgrades.

The middle years
----------------

The early Arch community grew steadily, as evidenced by this chart of
forum posts, users, and bug reports. Moreover, it was from its early
days known as an open, friendly, and helpful community.

The dawning of the age of A. Griffin
------------------------------------

In late 2007, Judd Vinet retired from active participation as an Arch
developer, and smoothly transferred the reins over to American
programmer Aaron Griffin, aka Phrakture, who remains the lead Arch
developer to this day.

Over the years, the Arch community continued to grow and mature, and has
recently received an unusual amount of attention and review for a Linux
distro of its modest size.

Arch developers remain unpaid, part-time volunteers, and there are no
prospects for monetizing Arch Linux, so it will remain free in all
senses of the word. Those curious to peruse more detail about Arch's
development history can browse the Arch entry in the Internet Archive
Wayback Machine.

Retrieved from
"https://wiki.archlinux.org/index.php?title=History_of_Arch_Linux&oldid=238020"

Category:

-   About Arch
