The Arch Way
============

The following five core principles comprise what is commonly referred to
as the Arch Way, or the Arch Philosophy, perhaps best summarized by the
acronym KISS for Keep It Simple, Stupid.

Contents
--------

-   1 Simplicity
-   2 Code-correctness over convenience
-   3 User-centric
-   4 Openness
-   5 Freedom

Simplicity
----------

Simplicity is the ultimate sophistication. — Leonardo da Vinci

Simplicity is absolutely the principal objective behind Arch
development. Many GNU/Linux distributions define themselves as "simple."
However, simplicity itself has many definitions.

Arch Linux defines simplicity as without unnecessary additions,
modifications, or complications, and provides a lightweight UNIX-like
base structure that allows an individual user to shape the system
according to their own needs. In short: an elegant, minimalist approach.

A lightweight base structure built with high programming standards will
tend to have lower system resource demands. The base system is devoid of
all clutter that may obscure important parts of the system, or make
access to them difficult or convoluted. It has a streamlined set of
succinctly commented, clean configuration files that are arranged for
quick access and editing, with no cumbersome graphical configuration
tools to hide possibilities from the user. An Arch Linux system is
therefore readily configurable to the very last detail.

Complexity without complication.

Arch Linux retains the inherent complexities of a GNU/Linux system,
while keeping them well organized and transparent. Arch Linux developers
and users believe that trying to hide the complexities of a system
actually results in an even more complex system, and is therefore to be
avoided.

Code-correctness over convenience
---------------------------------

Correctness is clearly the prime quality. If a system does not do what
it is supposed to do, then everything else about it matters little. —
Bertrand Meyer

The Arch Linux system places precedence upon elegance of design as well
as clean, correct, simple code, rather than unnecessary patching,
automation, eye candy or "newbie-friendliness." Software patches are
therefore kept to an absolute minimum; ideally, never. Simple design and
implementation shall always trump simple user interface.

Simplicity of implementation, code-elegance, and minimalism shall always
remain the reigning priorities of Arch development.

Concepts, designs and features are generated and implemented by using
the Arch Way principles as a guide, rather than bowing to external
influences. The development team are resolute in their commitment and
dedication to the Arch Way philosophy. If you share their vision, you
are welcomed and encouraged to use Arch.

User-centric
------------

Whereas many GNU/Linux distributions attempt to be more user-friendly,
Arch Linux has always been, and shall always remain user-centric.

Arch Linux targets and accommodates competent GNU/Linux users by giving
them complete control and responsibility over the system.

Arch Linux users fully manage the system on their own. The system itself
will offer little assistance, except for a simple set of maintenance
tools that are designed to perfectly relay the user's commands to the
system. Arch developers do not expend energy re-inventing GUI system
tools; Arch is founded upon sensible design and excellent documentation.

This user-centric design necessarily implies a certain "do-it-yourself"
approach to using the Arch distribution. Rather than pursuing assistance
or requesting a new feature to be implemented by developers, Arch Linux
users have a tendency to solve problems themselves and generously share
the results with the community and development team – a "do first, then
ask" philosophy. This is especially true for user-contributed packages
found in the Arch User Repository – the official Arch Linux repository
for community-maintained packages.

Openness
--------

Openness goes hand in hand with simplicity, and is also one of the
guiding principles of Arch Linux development.

Arch Linux uses simple tools, that are selected or built with openness
of the sources and their output in mind.

Openness removes all boundaries and abstraction between the user and the
system, providing more control, while simultaneously simplifying system
maintenance.

The open nature of Arch Linux also implies a fairly steep learning
curve, but experienced Arch Linux users tend to find other more closed
systems much more inconvenient to control.

The openness principle extends to its community members as well, as Arch
Linux users are very open with assistance and contribution.

Freedom
-------

Another guiding principle of Arch Linux development is freedom. Users
are not only permitted to make all decisions concerning system
configuration, but also choose what their system will be.

By keeping the system simple, Arch Linux provides the freedom to make
any choice about the system.

A freshly installed Arch Linux system contains only basic core
components with no automatic configuration performed. Users are able to
configure the system as they wish, from the shell. From the start of the
installation procedure, every component of the system is 100%
transparent and accessible for instant access, removal, or replacement
by alternative components.

The large number of packages and build scripts in the various Arch Linux
repositories also support freedom of choice, offering free and open
source software for those who prefer it, as well as proprietary software
packages, for those who embrace functionality over ideology. It is the
user who chooses.

As Judd Vinet, the founder of the Arch Linux project said: "[Arch Linux]
is what you make it."

Retrieved from
"https://wiki.archlinux.org/index.php?title=The_Arch_Way&oldid=268537"

Category:

-   About Arch

-   This page was last modified on 28 July 2013, at 07:21.
-   Content is available under GNU Free Documentation License 1.3 or
    later unless otherwise noted.
-   Privacy policy
-   About ArchWiki
-   Disclaimers
